And this lesson we're gonna be looking at variables again but only this time these variables are going
to be containing lots of data instead of just a single number or a single piece of text.
In other words we're going to introduce you to collections headed by collections we mean lists arrays
data frames and series.
In the last lesson we learned about how to store data inside variables and we learned about data types
in machine learning and data science.
We often need to work with.
Well a lot of data.
As such it would be silly to put each piece of data inside a separate variable.
The alternative to assigning a single value to a single variable like this is that we have a single
variable that actually contains lots of data and that variable will represent a collection one of the
most common types of collections that you'll encounter is the list.
Lists are pre-built into python and they're part of the language.
Let me show you what a list looks like.
I'm going to create a list called prime numbers and set it equal to a collection of five primes.
And the way to do that is by using the square brackets syntax.
When you open a square bracket and then give my first value three then put in a comma give my second
value say 7.
Another comma.
Third value sixty one comma twenty nine and one hundred and ninety nine and just like that we've created
a variable called prime numbers that holds onto a collection of five values.
Now just out of curiosity let's take a look at what the type of the prime numbers variable is type.
Prime numbers shift enter and we see that it's a list.
Now one thing that I'll mention is that a list in python you know doesn't have to be numbers right.
Alice can contain all sorts of data.
For example here's what a list of strings would look like.
Cool people is equal to square brackets.
Single quote Jay Z comma single quote Gandhi comma single quote and me single quotes.
There we go.
The important thing to note is how we substituted Jay-Z for Kevin Spacey in this list.
In any case a list is just a variable that holds on to a bunch of values and it could even hold on to
values of different types.
Check this out primes and people is equal to square brackets.
King Arthur comma 17 comma eleven comma single quote Jennifer Lopez.
Now even though we've got three different lists one with whole numbers one with text and one with a
mix of different types of data all of these three variables are actually of the same type they're of
type list.
So now that we've covered the syntax for creating a list I'm going to show you something even cooler
than storing data and lists and that's retrieving data from a list so the question is how do you pull
out a particular value from one of these lists.
Here's the secret.
The way we grab a particular item from the list is by that items index.
What do I mean by index.
The index is just the items position in the list.
Let me show you what I mean.
If I type prime numbers and open the square brackets between these two square brackets I can put a number
and that number is the value of the index.
So say I put in the number two and had shift enter I get back the value sixty one but sixty one is the
third item in this list.
Why is it the third item.
Well it turns out programmers really really really really like to start counting from zero.
In other words that first item number three is at position 0 7 is that position 1 and 61 is at position
2.
Now oftentimes what we're gonna be doing is storing the value that we pull out from a list in another
variable so we can do something like this.
Best prime ever is equal to prime numbers open square brackets.
For in this case we're pulling out one of the numbers from the list and storing it in a variable called
Best prime ever.
How I know you might have a different favorite prime number two but I'm sorry to say it's not going
to be as good as one hundred and ninety nine.
Let me give you another example of a list.
Say we had a list of eggs or egg objects and we want to pull out the egg at index 1 which egg.
Would we be pulling out.
Which egg is my egg equal to.
The answer is we would be grabbing the second egg in the list.
The spotted one.
Again this is because programmers start counting from zero.
Now the reason I'm belaboring this point so much is because forgetting to count from zero is super common.
And these off by 1 errors will also crash your python program.
Check out what happens when we write prime numbers square brackets five and had shift enter.
We get an error that reads index out of range and that's because we're trying to select an item beyond
the length of the list.
Our list has five items and we're trying to select the item at position 0 1 2 3 4 5 dynamite position
5 is the sixth one on the list since there is no sixth item our python program goes down in flames index
out of range.
So if you ever see these cursed words in your crash logs now you know why let's change that five back
to a four now lists are pretty common in Python and we'll be working with them a lot.
However we'll be encountering quite a few other kinds of collections too and a lot of them are very
very similar to the list but they are classified as a different data type because there are subtle differences
in scientific computing and machine learning.
We're going to be working with another data structure very very often namely the array an array is like
the lists that brother.
He's somewhat similar to a sister but he's got a different dad.
You see the python list is like a ballerina.
She's flexible friendly versatile.
She can grow and shrink in size and she can hold onto different types of data like numbers and text
in the same list the array on the other hand is a weightlifter.
He's strong and he's very good at particular tasks but he's less versatile.
He's also so buff that if you tried to punch you he couldn't reach around his own pecs but that's beside
the point.
All the data in an array must be of the same type so an array must be all numbers or all strings.
For example now believe it or not you've actually already encountered an array.
Remember how we were looking at the regression intercept when we were estimating the movie revenue below
the cell.
We saw the output array parentheses square brackets minus seven million two hundred thirty six thousand
in this output.
You even see the word array so we know that we're working with one.
But let's make this more explicit.
Let's check the type of rigour.
Don't intercept under school and had shift into high if you see this error.
Just like I do it's because I haven't actually run any of the Python code in the prior cells so I'm
gonna go to cell run all and my notebook will know about the regression intercept so that now it will
correctly evaluate this cell and what we discover is that the full name of this data type is num pi
don't end the array.
The cool thing is is that working with arrays is actually very similar to working with lists.
In other words we can use that square brackets syntax.
So if I write regular dot intercept on a school square brackets zero I'm pulling out the first and only
value from our array hitting shift enter.
I see this value printed below the cell up here.
In contrast I was looking at the entire array but in this cell I'm just looking at one of the values
inside of this array and I'm accessing this value with the square brackets notation providing an index
at value 0.
Okay so we learnt about lists and arrays in Python both of them use the square bracket notation and
through both of them we can access individual items using an index.
The index is just the position of the item in the list starting from zero.
And this brings me to a very very important point namely do you know why the programmer quit his job.
It's because he didn't get a raise.